What is bitcoin and others doing? The network in operation offers something useful and it uses its usefulness to bribe people into keeping it running. The bitcoin animal bribes users with tokens if they will do the task of keeping the token machine running. You could imagine a monster that wants to produce poison but can't do anything on it's own really, so it bribes people to do its bidding. Ultimately the people produce the poison but the monster had been paying them to do the tasks and so no one had to worry about what they were contributing to. Everyone could just carry on in their best interest. And if the system was a good one, then that is a good thing. If not, then obv bad thing. This has been happening for ages. The oil system canb e viewed as such a monster. It bribes us with convenient energy. The catch is that we have to dig up and foul chunks of the Earth and fuck up our climate. The difference is now we can potentially design one to our liking. So far we've been at the mercy of these things. The economy itself is one big monster. 

So it's an exchange. The network does some task for us, or produces something, and we trade with it. We take the product or use the tool, and in exchange we give it our computing power, so the fuel for it to run. But not necessarily only that. We may use our compute to run it's logic, it's brain, but it may also have arms. It may want to move thing. It may want to build something in that spot, it might want to execute certain hard feats of computation and so come up with a bunch of batch style problems that it can distribute out. Maybe not a great example. Well it's all brain. It is just a brain that can 'grow arms' if it incentives something stronly enough. If the bitcoin network was autonomous in some sense it could pay nodes in bitcoin for doing something. But that kind of thing would have to be programmed in. Things don't evolve on the blockchain 'naturally'. Like they don't freely move around there. They don't mate. But DAOs (agents) live and die. Blockchains (the ecosystem) live and die. So these things mutate when they are forked and prospere by garnering compute power, resources etc.

But we could program a DAO to pay people to do things in the world. The hard part is how does the DAO *see*. It can't see out into the world. It can't know who to pay the btc to. The blockchain is the great harddrive in the sky. We can see it. Now we need it to be able to see us. This seems necessary. DAOs just need to be able to see. Then we could start affecting directly the world of atoms. Then we could easily correct the whole system. If you can know who did what, if you can see into the world. Then we can say deduct btc from a person whom tries to over power others, or profit from someone's suffering. We can say give btc to people who genuinely help others. People who are honest.

What we really want to do is find the optimal strategy at all levels. As a society we want to figure out what behaviors are best for me to follow as an individual alone, then what is my best actions in light of the fact that I know 50 people. And in light of the fact that I'm in a town and state and country etc. 

Even hitting some of these would be huge. Ideally you would examine every single individual and take into account the millions of events going on around you and you would direct each person individually and you would orchestrate at crazy scales and kill it. But that's really hard. Requires insane intelligence. And insane computation power. For now, we can start with defining a set of behaviors that any individual agent in the group can follow. And if all the agents follow this set of rules then we advance and are happy. 