<center><h2>Decentralising The Internet</h2></center>

<center><h2>Internet 3</h2></center>

This platform can become the platform for the new internet. Internet 3. But ethereum doesn't route traffic! Smart contracts are far too slow and expensive for any kind of real time computing. But suppose you want to make a distributed internet. First of all, why? There are good reasons. We can have no servers. Imagine that. This system is of course censorship resistant, no worrying about net neutrality. No ads. A truly free system. If you wanted to build this you probably need micro payments. People need to have some incentive to allow their device to be a node. So we need someway to keep track of how much work any node is doing and we need to be able to reward them for it. We also need to be able to charge nodes based on how much they are pulling from the network. Nodes can of course be entirely passive and only suck in data, or they can be active. But anyway how could you keep track of these micropayments and in a FAIR way. We can't have a centralised book keeper. That defeats the purpose. 

We need some kind of system that no one controls that we can all trust and can deal with some kind of digital money in order to compensate. Then users could pay no ISP for internet use. At least assuming we pay for the 'wires' connecting nodes. Then we could all just buy ether and fund our bandwidth account. The great part is you might actually make money some days. The whole network could be zero sum. 

Traffic is perhaps a good example because it is very much quantifiable. The areas that this system can perform best in will be those that can be measured. Many other areas would require an oracle to the outside world. To measure the degree to which people are doing 'good' you need some kind of oracle to measure that. Network traffic can be quantified. You would still need mechanisms to make sure nodes are honest, but this is solvable. You can of course just do the tx system. I give you 1kb you give me 5 wei. If the node doesn't pay for the last kb then just don't send another one until they pay. 

This would be just like water flowing. High throughput nodes would emerge to meet demand. If there were a parade through your area your router would suddenly be paying you significant money if you allow it to serve people. It would be a market! Of course. You could perhaps pay nothing and rely on the goodness of people setting their system to allow 'no fee streams'. But if you want your traffic through you could just change a setting on your phone, or better yet your phone could intelligently adapt and know when a task is high priority. You could also set limits and a target of how much to spend. Spend more, faster data rate. It would be a completely free market. The costs would be extremely low as the cost to operate a router is very low. The power used is tiny. It's really just the upfront hardware cost. 

Your router could intelligently sell bandwidth as well. So you could prioritize your traffic so that your traffic *always* is fast. And bandwidth you are not using would enter a market system. A price per kb would emerge and your router would sell at that price.

Want to make some extra money? Buy highspeed routers and sell. Perhaps you would even have a new business model emerge where a company installs these routers throughout a city. Maybe they would rent out little corners of offices, houses, etc to house their hardware. Then the routers just sit there and 'mine'.

Since it's a market, bottleneck areas would have high profit potential. Man the costs would be low. We would approach the cost of electricity. And the costs would decrease per GB as the hardware improved. Routers that can do 100GB/s on 100 watts can charge like 0.001$ per 100GB/s. So the cost you pay in a very liquid market would be just tiny. Although if you request a file that exists far away you would have to pay more. You would just pay the sum of the wei paid for each leg of the journey.

The same system would exist for storage. Computers could offer their storage space for 'mining' purposes. And of course you could have your machine intelligently use the extra space to make you money. It too would be a market. Though perhaps you would agree to store a file for 24h or something and not just drop everything if prices go up for some new data.

So files would flow through the system like a fluid. If a bunch of people in an area are demanding the same video file you don't want to have to keep sending it from the source, if the source if far away. What you want is to have the file only come in from the source once, get stored on some harddrives, then serve from there as demand increases. You basically want to never have to go backward. So if anyone near me gets the file I get it from them.

There will be great algorithmic improvements made to this system. This will be an area where hard computer science will be able to make huge efficiency gains. 

So we can decentralise networking.
