The economy is an emergent process where the species organises at a higher level. So the humans have a certain capability on their own, but of course do better when interacting and trading and helping each other. This affects evolution ofc. So the groups that did this well survived. So this system of connections and systems and norms and protocols and religion and other beliefs, this system evolved through the ages. Naturally the very destructive tendencies likely evolve away. Eventually this meta-mind/system can stop destroying bad ‘nodes’ (groups of humans/operating systems (religions), norms) and spend more energy on constructive. Bad there is always some burning off of dead wood. 

Literal wars between groups of people with different ideologies can be seen as this organism evolving. The organism has no ‘opinion’, but it’s members do. Eventually one of the competing ideas will win perhaps. Science as an idea survived not because it was touted by charismatic individuals, which would be tantamount to it not excelling based on it’s content. Rather it survived because of it’s utility.

The system can be viewed as an organism. Except this organism is very long lived, and changes quite drastically over the eons. This specter, this ethereal thing exists in the meta, exists as a form/pattern spread across 4 dimensions rather than 3. This one need not die. This organism can spread outward in many directions. It can take heavy damage and recover. It’s participants can notice the meta organism. They can talk about it. They can try to change it. And this is how it changes. It changes by individuals. Some have quite a drastic effect. Some of those big influencers might not have been good. Some bad ideas persist. 

A physical object or animal or artifact can be appreciated in 3D quite easily. They can be looked at and dissected and made sense of. They exist in 4D ofc through time. We can obv observe their character and habits. And this is very interesting. But the meta mind exists in the 4th dimension differently somewhat. Or at least it’s time journey is pretty interesting. A meta mind has significance in the snapshot sense too. It’s neat to see all these people communicating and organising. 

The system (capitalism etc), this is the operating system that the meta mind runs. Capitalism is not as pretty as many of us hoped, but it does work. And it works better than the chunks of people who tried communism. And thinking it would be different in another country or something is silly actually. We aren’t ready for that operating system yet. The one where we each act nobly. And this is naive anyway. It’s unstable. The system needs to have natural tendency to stabilize. Communism is weak to people being corrupt or lazy. It crumbles when lazy people show up. But we all have that in us, some more than others. The chance of it coming out is so high.

When our internal systems get better (cryptos, internet) we may build stronger systems, like changing parts on a machine. And as we put in systems to amplify our best tendencies and stamp out the bad ones, then perhaps we shift our larger system as well. Of course that is always happening. 

Ethereum is a meta system. It’s one of these pieces in the machine. More like a tool though. It’s a tool for fixing our system. A tools for consciously altering the meta organism. Our whole society. Our financial system today is an old wooden and paper and quills piece of machinery. This one has served us alright, but it showing it’s age. Ethereum is a slick aluminum and carbon fiber new part. It promises to be much more efficient. Much more safe. Much more beneficial to the people. The maintainers of this system will enjoy great wealth, at least those who purchased a large stake in this systems ‘oil’. The previous system largely ran on oil. Oil kept finance and industry and others running. Of course they are all connected. So you can’t really separate finance from anything else. Especially not industry. 

Will ethereum be the winner here? Will it be used for a large part of our new upgraded system? I think it will have some impact yes. It may be surpassed I suppose. Maybe there is some flaw in a design. Could they just keep the codebase and fork? Probably. I mean no one would stop them, but it might hurt confidence. But I think it would be forked. I think this thing will be pretty resilient. Either ethereum or a fork of it will survive at least for a while. We are talking another dotcom explosion. Except it won’t look the same. 

We are the emergent brain of brains. Mind of minds. It makes decisions. It reacts. This brain exists on every scale too. It exists in groups of 5 people, 10, 100, 10,000 etc. It’s behaviors and actions can be studied on day/week/month/year/millennial time scales. 

We can think of life on this 4D plane. We can take snapshots in time and study those, like study all the beetles in your time slice. Or study the change of beetles over eons. Or study the change of all life over eons. So we can hold time ‘constant’ and study present artifacts. Or hold species ‘constant’ and study how one species changes. Or hold anything constant and so on. So there’s infinite angles to look at this from. There’s infinite ways to weave through this story. And ultimately we get some set amount of time to do so. Though that may soon change. 

So what is ethereum potentially? It’s a new operating system. It’s a sort of ‘software’ for this meta organism. It is also the tool that will allow us to build new, other kinds of systems. Not just a new company or new proposed govt system. But it’s a entire new structure. It’s like going from stone tools and axes and bows and all that and then having fire. It’s not comparable. It’s fundamentally different in some way. For the case of tools stones and whatnot had no mobility of their own, no force of their own. The human had to wield them or else they were nothing but things to trip over. Fire could destroy on its own. We have tamed fire. What is ethereum? Eth a new operating system for societies to function. What is it’s superpower? Why is it better? Well the old one relied on trust a lot. And it incurred a lot of fraud and dishonest acting. It had no solution for those things really. It plugged leaks. But didn’t actually fix the issue. This new system has much stronger ways to hold people accountable. To design precise institutions. Because corporations are not precise. They fumble around. The research and try to be agile, but are not always. They miss things. They misstep. They are lead by people. Now we can build automatic organisations. We can build ‘building’ out of code. We can build banks out of code. We can build new kinds of markets/mediums of exchange. Ethereum is like a shop. This shop is stocked with tools and building materials. What we build with it is not certain. But currency was the first. Bitcoin showed an alternative to money as we know it... Eth is using some similar concepts but is the logical next step. Bitcoin was made to be money. Just money. Ethereum is the turing complete computer. I still need to read more about it. 

So what businesses to we need for this kind of stuff to take off? Exchanges are the most obvious. Ya people will like to trade these things around. BTC for fiat especially. There is going to be a big inflection point somewhere along the line. People are going to be shoveling USD away for digital assets. Well we have this new power. It’s basically a super power. Fire was a superpower. Eth is a organisational superpower. What a strange tool. Look how long it took us to to tame fire. Now it drives our cars, nearly silently. It too is being surpassed. Scientific thought of course has been the driver of these things. Eth is a new building material. Or a new medium to sculpt in. The internet was the nervous system of course. 

These are mental models. It’s all models. 

The internet disrupted media and shopping and lifestyle stuff, and will disrupt education. It is also ultimately the medium which will power ethereum etc. So it’s all connected. The reason old people have a hard time with tech is because of the new mental model that must be made. You need to form some kind of decent mental model to understand even the basic look and feel of these new paradigms. 

We had books, that was a disrupter. We had fire. We had radio. We had tv. We had the internet. Ether is about organisation for sure. Not so much communication. Not so much entertainment. Not so much the direct transfer of info. It is about being able to build, run, maintain, orchestrate society machinery - some of which will look similar to corporations. Some will serve the function/end product of education or getting food to people or entertaining people or anything else. We don’t know change this will bring.

I need to build dapps to get a feel of this space better. This is the thing to work on. This and AI. What is stronger? Long term AI is. But blockchain tech might even work itself into AI. We might use blockchain in conjunction with AI to build some kind of weird decision market. Maybe the AI is used to do some portion of an intelligent service, while the blockchain is used to guarantee trust between humans who fill in the missing pieces of intelligence that the AI couldn’t get.

There really are levels to excellence when it comes to ideas/businesses. You could just dream up an application of a tech and try it. You could look for problems then try to find tech to solve it. You could understand the tech really deeply and catch some aspect of it that can be applied somewhere, just way better than alternatives. I’m at the stage of trying to imagine just how you could use eth. Never mind what are it’s strengths... Hash functions have the strength of being random, repeatable, hard to cause collisions. The hashing for confirming a document is pretty obvious, but useful. The exchange idea for cryptos is not even using the strength of the cryptos. It’s an old wooden idea just being used for now to exchange crypto.

What is a killer app for ether? I don’t know until I’ve actually learned more about dapps and ethereum in general.

So digital assets can be controlled by code, or smart contracts. This digital assets have no ‘intrinsic’ value probably. But that’s irrelevant. You can always proxy something ‘fake’ like money for something real like food/house. So you could of course represent physical wealth with the digital assets (bitcoin). But what else? 

Could you use machine learning for sort of ‘hasing’ a real object? Like use the computer vision to recognise an object and all it’s details. Then provide some secret key. This could be used to recognise the same object. Though it would be tough if they are just literally similar. What use is this? Well it’s good to be able to recognise people. Boring.

Another thing, new companies should think of AI and all the other tools as tools to be used. A crypto company is not opposite a AI company, or somehow not allowed to use AI. They just maybe are not focusing on building AI per se. 

I seriously think I could come up with a ground breaking business idea on top of ethereum and AI. Of course many others are working. This is good. But I could definitely find work doing this stuff. I could just work online for freaking bitcoin. No contract or anything. No official employment... Wow. 

I could become an expert in dapps and work as a programmer for BTC and ETH. What a concept. Man gov’t is going to want some tax on this shit. Frankly we might be able to replace large swathes of gov’t with this tech. That is a killer app for sure. Well what functions do gov’t currently play that we actually will still need? Just do those things and we can safely do away with the old wooden gov’t system. Gov’t pays to get the roads fixed. That’s a big one. Gov’t gives us some social security. Gov’t enforces laws. Mostly financial stuff, those we are replacing. The gov’t can also make large scale decisions. They can internalise unaccounted for externalities like Carbon build up in the air. They can tax certain things or prop things up. Supposedly for our best interest but of course they serve themselves rather conspicuously. 

Automated insurance is one. You could have money going into a shared fund, and paying out for real, but only when people actually need it. We could somehow programmatically measure the misfortune. This was talked about on Tim’s podcast. We could measure how much their mean income has changed over the historic norm for this time of year and also adjusted for the steady rate it has been increasing. We can pay to help level that curve. The metric just must be trusted, or rather, we need to be able to rely on this metric. Ideally with no trust. Safety net. OK idea. But doesn’t do anything if things are well. Well ofc we could be zero profit. So you would get a varying payout. You could pay in X per day or something and get Y back later? That makes no sense. It’s the internet. So just pad everyone out constantly? Sounds like a fund. 

What if we formed consensus about something using human insight but also the blockchain? Miners agree about blocks of transactions. Could we agree about matters of arbitrary subject? Sounds like a forum. What does the blockchain do? I know what a hash function does. What does a blockchain do? It allows consensus to form... It allows strict ordering of data. Where it’s impossible to create this chain except by doing it in order.

So we can check that some operation was done in a certain order. We can freeze digital things?

Bitcoin is a distributed ledger with a system that prevents this digital assets from being duplicated. Digital scarcity. Of course that’s one things that money requires. See with money we know what it must be. It must be dividable, sendable, scarce and hard/impossible to mess with. A ledger is kind of a surprising solution in some ways. If you think digital gold you think actually passing some kind of digital artifact around. But ofc it’s all just data so you can’t really just do that.

I don’t really like that bitcoin must keep the whole tx history. That just doesn’t seem sustainable. Of course it isn’t. They can also trim the merkle tree. I think they can do that repeatedly as necessary to whatever degree needed. That makes sense. 

Crowd funding. This is big. How about a better way to lend. That will happen. And it will be a transformation. Although lending is always uncertain. You can’t ever lend without risk. But you could somehow optimise the amount of risk you are taking. All in pursuit of a more efficient market. But even mortgages. Make a DOA that removes control from us. A DOA that is not gameable. One that you can’t trick/cheat. It must not be possible to steal from the pot. 

Namecoin

We want to be able to use our names or something as addresses instead of 0x23423423dsfasdfa. But can’t have 2 ‘jordan’s. So you use the blockchain and first person gets the name. So it’s like DNS. I guess you can go there and register a name to a hash?

BTC
47Bn of the global ‘value’ has been migrated off of fiat and into bitcoin. What percentage is this of total fiat? Well Bill Gates alone has about twice that. Total cash in the world is 5 trillion. Or 5000 billion. So about 50Bn/5000Bn. About 1/100. [That’s wrong] That’s actually pretty significant. So 100x more transactions, even if people are not using it for everyday stuff (as the people today are not). But less speculation perhaps? Does the price stabilise? I guess it all depends. If you make the tx size small then the fees will be large and absolute number of tx’s should decrease. Tx’s made with small fees will take longer and eventually get let in? Can you choose which tx’s to include in your block? Must be able to. Or tx fee would have no impact. And you could set 0BTC tx fees. So quick tx is a market. Every node is incentivized to grab the biggest fee tx’s. So if people really want their tx to happen now, then they can pay .1BTC. But would that ever crowd out tx’s paying low fees? Could the system ever get essentially ddos’ed? The thing is it costs BTC to do such an ‘attack’. So what is the whole market does it together? Well I suppose more nodes have to light up. Oh right you have the block reward! So even if people won’t pay fees, you should still mine. At least right now. And if less computers participated then the blocks would get easier. So the same amount of BTC get’s spread out to fewer machines. Which makes it worth it again. So the fees are needed though or else the sum cpu power (cost fixed, so electricity at constant, $/GH/s constant). Wait. 

This is a multivariable equation. Note: btc and eth are not currently quantum safe, but they can be made quantum safe relatively easily. RE Lamport signature. Vitalik wrote an article about this, so clearly he understands how ethereum can be secured. 

Eth issuance rate is 14.75%. About 5 Eth per block. This may vary depending on ‘uncles’. So the rate of inflation of ether will taper off to 0. The rate of issuance of ether will start out exceeding the destruction, but eventually match it. So The absolute number of ether is increasing at a decreasing rate. Eventually stabilising.

Eth will have a ‘difficulty bomb’ where it takes longer to make a block... The ice age. This is actually not set in stone yet. But seems likely that issuance will decrease leading up to POS and keep dropping after POS.

Proof of stake
Eth currently uses POF like bitcoin. POS serves a similar function but is more efficient and more secure. The POF alg functions as follows:
-The blockchain keeps track of validators. Anyone who holds eth can become a validator by locking up some eth into a deposit. Then the process of agreeing on new blocks is done by a consensus alg that validators participate in.
-The two main consensus algs are chain-based proof of stake and BFT-style POS.
-The chain based one just randomly selects a validator and asks them to create a block pointing to the previous chain tip. Things would converge upon the longest chain. Each node checks that the chain is valid of course. So this could only be beat by a 51% attack.
-BFT validators are randomly assigns the right to propose blocks. But agreeing on which block is canonical is done through a multi round process where every validator sends a vote for some specific block. So some validators (randomly selected) get to put up some candidate blocks. Then all the other validator nodes can vote. At the end of voting validators permanently agree on whether or not a given block is part of the chain. Blocks are still chained together, but consensus does not come from the longest chain, but rather agreeing on the block itself. This seems more efficient of course. 

-An estimated $1million worth of electricity is burned currently to support either BTC or ETH. In the new system it will cost far less electricity to perform the function that POW did. So the incentive given to POS’ers can be lower. So with BTC tx fees may become very high. Where with ETH tx fees could settle at a very low background noise level. Something small enough that you just don’t really care. A small convenience fee. If it became high enough then people would mine. It would be very simple to mine, at least it would cost very little. You just set your computer as a node I guess. Electricity bill does not noticeably go up. Fees may still be collected by this validators, in fact they should garner some fees. But it will not be so attractive to be a validator, perhaps you make a few dollars... How do you not duplicate your IPs so to speak? Well You still need to tie up ether to participate. So it’s like a savings account. You will gain some interest on ETH that you are using in order to be a validator. Truly liquid ETH will not gain this interest necessarily.
-POS allows a large number of game theoretic mechanisms to discourage cartels. 
-This offers a reduced centralisation risk of BTC. As we are seeing in China where BTC mining is becoming centralised. You don’t want this. Economies of scale make it profitable to for larger groups to mine, but not so for smaller. This is evidenced by the ‘it’s not worth it to mine anymore’ statement. This weakens your currency. In POS $10 million of coins gets you exactly 10 times higher returns than $1 million. So you don’t get a runaway thing where rich gets increasingly richer and ‘islands form’. Islands of participants. If things do not tend to form islands then there is no tendency for the consensus participants to centralise. This is good. It should be basically impossible to form a cartel.
-Economic penalties cna be used in POS to prevent 51% attakcs... The ETH they had to pay (a lot of it) is in smart contracts. If they are found to be cheating we can trigger these smart contracts and re-distribute the money to the other validators. So if you cheat and get caught your money evaporates. 

Byzantine Fault Tolerance
Imagine 2 generals are commanding 2 groups of men. They encircle a city and now need to decide whether to attack or retreat. Whatever they do they must do it together or they will be killed. But any general may or may not be traitorous. And they are on opposite sides so they must send their decisions through runners who may be intercepted etc. In BTC how do we agree on a block? Well we take the longest chain and have a lottery based on cpu power for who gets their block in. 

Note: if quantum computers advance enough to threaten the security of BTC/ETH then they will have already done so for regular money in bank databases. Where the whole database is password protected. Or transactions are encrypted and can then be altered. 

Mining may drive down the cost of electricity somehow? The value of computing is so huge that I think we have a long way to go before things level off. There will be increasing demand for computing power going forward for a long time. 

Uses of money
-SOV: store of value (USD is not good for this, it is inflationary)
-MOE: medium of exchange (gold is not good for this. Hard to transfer around)
-UOA: unit of account. A common measure of value. Some way to easily communicate the value of something. If I say my car is worth 180,000 USD then you know what that is. If I have a car we need to be able to say what it’s value is in something other than ‘1 car’. We need to price everything in terms of one thing ideally. 
-SOV: standard of value: a way to settle debts

Money's a matter of functions four,
A Medium, a Measure, a Standard, a Store.

Cash is a bad store of value. Mostly because bankers keep inflating it. Your 10$ is worth about half in 30 years.


We could enable micro work. An app could be produced that would allocate small amounts of eth from every viewer or user somehow that would enable some great service. People don't care about paying 0.1$, but it's impossible to do. So what kind of situation could you have now, since we could do arbitrary small payments? Millions of people pointed at 1 wallet. Or hundreds at a few. Maybe we could make a new economy of helping each other? Maybe not. 




