<center><h2>Ethereum The Global Computer (high level)</h2></center>

The tagline really is the best one sentence description. Ethereum is the world computer. Right now all the computers of the world are privately owned essentially. No one can verify their computations, look inside, or see the state of their harddrives. We only see what each computer exposes to the world. Sure it could expose its workings in a truthful way, but we can't be certain so it's no sense building important things on top of that.

Imagine a computer in the sky that the whole world can see. Not only see but also be confident in. That is actually more important. Most people won't have to worry about what this computer is doing, they will just take advantage of the new norms and systems and opportunities.

The first thing you put onto the world computer is the finances. That is relatively simple record keeping. It's a simple ledger in the case of cash anyway. Easy to get right. But eventually we should put all things contractual, all things law, all things public record onto the global computer.

The really exciting stuff happens when we imagine what new things we can build using this that we just couldn't build before. Moving existing systems onto the global computer will radically transform the world, but entirely new paradigms await. These will stand out on a 100,000 year time scale. These I think will be on the scale of the Internet, printing press etc.

So you have a global computer. With every idea we should ask whether it really needs to be on ethereum or whether it could work as a regular website or app. Only that which needs the features of ethereum should be there obviously.

What programs would we want on a global computer? Well we would want spreadsheets for money, debt, and all kinds of stuff. What are the things that we can't just trust some party with? What are the things that need to be out in the open? 

Well the first thing to do is move stuff over. That alone will take decades. Andreas thinks the killer app is DAOs. I agree. But that is still vague. What kind of DAOs?

Bitcoin is sort of a global computer but it is not general. It has a harddrive, the blockchain, and a 10min clock frequency but the harddrive is just a ledger and all you can really do is move value around the ledger.

Ethereum was the logical next step. Use this blockchain harddrive idea but also build a fully general programming language on top of it.

Ethereum is also a global computer, but it is a truly general global computer. So the harddrive is a blockchain with accounts that have balances, similar to bitcoin, but it also has special accounts that hold code. These things will run code when you send them money. So the 'state' which is held by the blockchain.

This global computer has a harddrive which is a blockchain similar to Bitcoin's.
So you basically have a bitcoin style blockchain along with a programming language. Each account is sort of an autonomous agent living on the blockchain. You can send tx to these agents and their code will execute. So it’s a decentralised computing environment where people can sort of upload an agent and then spend money to run it. BUT the agents can also interact with each other. The agents can directly control and manipulate currency units. So you could send an agent X ether and according to its code it may distribute them one way or another.

While bitcoin is a special purpose distributed computer with a ledger-harddrive, Ethereum is a global distributed general purpose computer with a much more general harddrive.

So imagine you could have a machine that can be given whatever rules you want, and you could always be sure that it would follow them. You could figure out some good rules and then no one could cheat it or stop it from running or anything like that. If the machine is some benefit to the people they could give it a high ranking and ensure it always gets run. They do this by allocating their token to it. Perhaps the machine actually gives some people more tokens. Perhaps there is some way to have people buy into the system in hopes of gaining money and somehow it is sustainable.

So ethereum is a computing platform. It is a platform that has some characteristics that no one computing platform has. This is one that can ensure code will run. Code cannot be crushed if some gov’t doesn’t like it. The code can deal with currency. So you can send in money and trust that your money won’t just disappear. Of course this platform also has money. The system ensures that token aren’t copied. Tokens can’t be stolen. Etc. So we can safely compute in this environment. What these agents will do is anyone’s guess. Right now everyone has a complete copy of the environment. Well all the full nodes. Next we will figure out how to shard it. Eventually we will distribute the system such that there is only a little redundancy, maybe a given chunk of data lives on 10 nodes or something. And some equilibrium would be found of how much incentive do you have to pay to make sure some chunk of data is definitely on enough nodes so as to be certain that it will not be lost. More important contracts will exist on many more nodes and if necessary will have similar compute available. It will all be in proportion to the market. Agents that are found valuable and therefore earn lots of fuel will automatically scale up. 

What is a computing platform. Well a computing platform is just some computing environment that has a set of attributes about the environment. So one platform is perhaps a single computer. It has a CPU and mem and hdd. Another has perhaps multiple CPUs. Ethereum is a place where computing can happen, but it has some unique properties. This is a shared computer that we can all trust. Rather this is a platform that has strict laws about the computations that are run? Right now every node on the network runs on sort of the same thread. They all have a picture of the current state. Then a new block comes out and theyall update their state. This trickles out to all the nodes. So you have millions of nodes all running the same single threaded CPU jobs that come in. Just like how jobs are sent to your CPU. The CPU get jobs in single file. And it runs them and state changes (memory). What we’ve done is taken that CPU and spread it out over millions of nodes so that we can all compute together. We can run tx where a number in one account goes up and another goes down and we can make sure that this gets carried out. No nodes can stop it even if they want to. This giant distributed CPU that has 1/15 Hz clockspeed. It computes. Wow. Nodes can die. Nodes can enter. It is a computing swarm. If 10% of nodes are nuked, it still runs. So we are building the computer. What should we run? 

So this is the first attempt at a distributed computer. First we just say OK every node just run the same stuff. So instead of one cpu running a job that takes 1 sec we have a million cpus around the world running a job that takes 1 sec and the whole distributed computer still takes 1 sec to do it. It ain’t a million times faster. It’s actually slower than 1 sec because the latency. Everything has to propagate. This is going to drive fiber networks like crazy. The American telco cartels are really going to fuck up America’s chance of participating in this new world computer as well as they could. 

Every full node also keeps a copy of the whole hard drive too. This is truly unsustainable. But there are plans to fix this. Actually I don’t think there is a hdd. I think it is all in memory right now. Well it’s a hybrid. The state consists of the states of all the accounts. That’s it I think. I need to know the OPcodes that these accounts can do. So the code that they run is turing complete. A contract can do any computation that you want. As far as how it can interact with other agents, I’m not sure. I think that is the OP codes? Surely they can send money, receive money etc. 

So this giant distributed, slow, very expensive CPU goes from state to state. So you could make a smart contract to just hash a number let’s say. So you create a smart contract, put the code in there. Send it off. Then send 100 Eth to it. So when you create the smart contract you send out that broadcast and it gets accepted for some small miner fee. The creation of that block only really benefited the miner that won it, but since it’s a fair lottery if you participate and mine you should profit. So you send it out. Then later you do another tx to fuel it up. So who gets your gas? Is it just the miner? Because what if you have a hugely expensive program and it takes everyone hours to run, but you only pay 1 node since only the node that wins the block gets the fee? If everyone got a piece then the gas cost would be high? Not sure. Everyone runs the code though. And it’s all in memory basically. That is to say that every node keeps the whole state. Storage in this system would be some way of offloading chunks of the state. Just like a regular computer you could store things for long term in such a way that that data could be used in some future computations but does not need to be in the current state now. 

So we have no harddrive. Single threaded CPU. Perhaps we have 3 tiers of memory. Each block describes a state change. Blocks have a certain size. Though not fixed in ethereum. No the block size is how many state change operations can you ‘do at once’ before the network needs to sort of catch up and propagate. So block size and block time are what determine the speed of this CPU. DPU? The blocks are the sets of instructions that will be carried out. Each node collects the tx that they hear broadcast. And they construct a block and start mining it. Before they mine it do they run the code in the smart contracts and apply this state change to other accounts? Well any of the accounts out there can be effected by the instructions in smart contract. So the set up accounts is what gets changed made to it. Any change whatever must appear in the block. So perhaps you read their code and if it says to send to account X then you go to account X and increment their balance. Once you’re done you have a new state. The blockchain is the only storage. The only memory. New blockchain is like a boot from scratch. Restarting your computer. You must run the code before you mine. Because you don’t know where that X eth that gets randomly paid out by this agent goes. Where it goes must be in the next block. So some node runs your code, mines the block and wins. They earn your gas as well as other tx fees. But what if they don’t win? You send out your eth and a bunch of nodes around you run your code that goes on for ages. They don’t win the block. They get nothing. Isn’t this an attack vector? Since the tx was broadcast out to all nodes, eventually if it hasn’t made it into a block yet, it will be. All nodes have your tx in their backlog, if your fee was higher than the lowest fee tx that gets processed during slow times then it will make it in. Then the miner wins your gas? Seems that this would limit computation times as well. The sooner you can run all the agents and find the new state, the sooner you can throw it in a block and start hashing. The sooner you start hashing the better. Though at least many other nodes will also be running that same code. Pretty quickly all the nodes should hit this 15 minute compute time job and would the next block really take that long? Well it would be weighted toward quickness in some sense because fast computers that finish soon could mine sooner and they would carry the system forward. The DPU must wait for slow pokes. Considering the eth computer is like millions of times slower than a regular one this is probably not a problem. For anyone to run your code they can see your gas amount. They run only until that’s done. Then if you aren’t done revert. They lost the eth. Very curious to see where the gas goes.

