<center><h2>What Makes a Good Villain?</h2></center>

I've always found one-dimensional villains, like the typical 'evil' Disney movie character, to be boring and villains who fall into a grey area, like Ozymandias from Watchmen to be very interesting. 

A one dimensional villain is who is just plain 'evil'. Whatever 'good' is, they go against it apparently for no other reason than that is just what they do. These types usually have no redeeming qualities at all. It isn't that they really think they are doing what's best but just have a warped idea of how to get there, or what best is. It isn't that they are confused or misinformed. They know they are doing evil. This is the least interesting kind of villain because what lesson do we get from this example? Don't be evil? Well, yea. We all already know that one. Very, very few people consciously decide they are going to 'be evil', though some do. But those that do are not going to be convinced to instead be good by a movie or story. Even people who do eventually get to the point where they are aware that they are doing evil, they didn't just decide to be that way. They likely started out more or less decent. So how did they get there? 

There are many roads to destructive behavior, but it is the least obvious ones that are the most important to understand. In Watchmen Ozymandias is the villain. He essentially conducts a terrorist attack which costs many lives, and he makes it look as if this attack was carried out by Dr. Manhatten who is a god like, non human 'good guy'. The public was already a little uncomfortable with Dr. Manhatten as he is very powerful and not really human. So far Ozymandias looks like a regular old villain. But he then explains to Manhatten why he did it. The world was in a state of war and nuclear tension. At any moment the next world war might break out. Ozymandias saw this and realized that if the world had a common threat, some enemy which could destroy them unless they worked together to fight it, if such a threat existed then the superpowers would stop fighting and we would have peace. Instead of protesting Dr. Manhatten actually realized that Ozymandias was right. This was the greatest good. This route would actually save lives. So he left Earth. Another character, Rorshach decided that peace built on a lie was not right. He decided he would tell the world the truth. Doing so would mean all those people died for nothing. There would be no peace. Perhaps many more would die if the truth came out. Rorshach marched on anyway and so Dr. Manhatten killed him. 

Why is this interesting? Well if we are going to try to ensure we do good in the world, we need to think of these kinds of complications. What is the greatest good? 

